Contining with our strings2 program, I'm
going to delete everything except the
definition of parrot on line 3,
and also the first slice.
The start, stop and step values in a slice
can also be negative. So let's add some code on line 7,
print then left parentheses parrot
left square bracket -4:2
right square bracket then right
parenthesis. Now if we run this we'll find
that this actually doesn't print out
anything. So it doesn't print the two
characters starting 4 in from the end
of the string, and it's printing nothing, as
I mentioned, and that's because you can't
go backwards from the starting position.
So instead we'd have to write that as
-4, which we've got, but then -2,
and as a comment that should give us Bl.
As another example print
parentheses parrot again, then left square
bracket -4:12 right square
bracket right parenthesis, then that will
actually give us the same thing. So if we
run this, you can see we've got Bl in both
cases there. So the first one, on line 7,
that prints from index -4 and
that's B, capital B, up to but not
including the second-to-last character
in the string, which is u.
Now the second example, on line 8, prints the same
thing but this time it's interpreted as
from index -4, up to but not
including index position 12.
So spend some time experimenting with negative indices.
There's nothing tricky about them.
they're just counting from the end of
the string, instead of from the beginning.
Make sure you can reproduce all the
slices from the last video, using
negative indices. I'll do the one on line 5
just to get you started,
and we'll do that just immediately under
line 5. So the negative version of that
would be print parentheses parrot square
bracket -14:-8. Then we want
our right to square bracket right
parenthesis and that should give us the same result.
So let's just run that to make sure that it
works, and you can see we've got Norweg
outputted twice. So again, make sure
you go through and reproduce all the
slices from the last video, using
negative indices, to really make sure
that you understand how they work. But
also, with that said, create your own
strings and practice on them as well.
In the next video, we'll see how to use a step in our slices.
See you in the next video.